---
layout: post
title: "The JCP and The Future of Java, by Heather VanCura"
excerpt: ""
meetup: 239303462
modified:
categories: meetup
hidden: false
author: heather_vancura
tags: []
comments: true
share: true
image:
  feature:
date: 2017-04-27T17:30:00-04:00
---

__The JCP & The Future of Java, by Heather VanCura__

Learn how to take part in Java technology evolution through the Java Community Process (JCP) program. You can participate as an individual, corporation, or nonprofit such as a Java user group (JUG). 

This session outlines why and how to participate in the JCP Program. You will also learn about the global Adoption programs and how you can participate in the programs. 

We will discuss details such as how to run hack days, collaborate with other JUG leads on Adopt-a-JSR activities, and review use cases from other JUGs around the world contributing to the Java EE 7 and Java SE 8 JSRs. 

Currently there are new JSRs being developed for the Java EE 8 and Java SE 9 platforms. Find out how you have contribute to the future editions of the Java Standard and Java Enterprise Editions.

__Heather VanCura ([@heathervc](https://twitter.com/heathervs))__

Heather VanCura is Chair of the JCP Program, and is a leader of the global community driven adoption and user group programs. Heather drives the efforts to transform the JCP program and broaden participation and diversity in the community. 

She is passionate about Java, women in technology and developer communities, serving as an international speaker and community organizer of developer hack days around the world. 

Heather enjoys speaking at conferences, such as OSCON, Devoxx, JFokus, and the JavaOne Conferences. She resides in the San Francisco Bay Area, California USA and enjoys trying new sports and fitness activities in her free time. She comes to Montreal for the first time.
