---
layout: post
title: "Convince your Company & The Making the Long Road Short by Mark Heckler"
excerpt: ""
meetup: 243826552
modified:
categories: meetup
hidden: true
author: mark_heckler
tags: []
comments: true
share: true
image:
  feature:
date: 2018-08-30T17:30:00-04:00
---

__Convince your Company & The Making the Long Road Short__

Two talks for the price of one :

1. Cloud Native, Docker, DevOps, microservices, and more: we go to conferences and get excited about the potential of so many things that could revolutionize our development and change our organizational and professional lives! And then, we go home…​and hit the wall. If you’ve ever asked yourself, "This stuff is cool, but HOW CAN I GET MY COMPANY TO DO IT??!", this is the session for you.

2. Java EE (now Jakarta EE) is a well-established standard for creating enterprise Java applications and powers many critical applications with long lifespans. A frequent question is this: how can I gain access to the power of Spring & Spring Boot to take advantage of their dependency management, CDI, ease of data/streams use & integration, reactive programming, first-class Kotlin support,2.  or any of a number of other capabilities? What are preferred migration patterns to smooth the path?


__Mark Heckler__

Mark Heckler is a Pivotal Principal Technologist & Spring Developer Advocate, conference speaker, published author, & Java Champion focusing upon developing innovative production-ready software at velocity for the Cloud and IoT applications. He has worked with key players in the manufacturing, retail, medical, scientific, telecom, and financial industries and various public sector organizations to develop and deliver critical capabilities on time and on budget. Mark is an open source contributor and author/curator of a developer-focused blog (https://www.thehecklers.com) and an occasionally interesting Twitter account (@mkheck).

Mark lives with his very understanding wife in St. Louis, MO USA.
